## Ego network analysis

In this section will discuss a way of creating *ego-networks* based on

### Concepts

Given a user $u$, let's define:

- $O(u)$: Others of $u$. The set of users that receive 2 or more retweets from $u$.
- $R_u(o)$: Number of retweets that receives a users $o\in O(u)$ from $u$
- $P(R_u)=P(\{ R_u(o), \forall o \in O(u)\})$: Empiric distribution of $R_u(o)$ for all $o\in O(u)$.
- $O_s(u)=\{o\in O(u)| R_u(o)\in \text{Outliers}(P)\}\sub O(u)$: Significative others of $u$. The subset of users for which its number of retweets from $u$ represents an outlier of the $P(R_u)$ distribution

<figure style="text-align:center">
    <iframe frameborder="0" style="width:100%;height:400px;" src="https://app.diagrams.net/?lightbox=1&highlight=0000ff&edit=_blank&layers=1&nav=1&title=EgoNetwork.drawio#Uhttps%3A%2F%2Fdrive.google.com%2Fuc%3Fid%3D13_1OP3DQnsCCYWEf-_Nvcd80MBNHQ6kb%26export%3Ddownload"></iframe>
<figcaption>Fig.1 - Schema of ego-network.</figcaption>
</figure>
The significative others set ($O_s$) are the users that receive a significant larger amount of retweets than the others. Could be that the significative others set is empty, and thus we haven't an ego network for that given user. The distribution $P$ is often very skewed, that's why we consider only

For the definition of $\text{Outliers}$ we will use what is stated in the paper [1], that introduces the skewness into the measurement of the outliers. With 
$$
Q_i := i\text{th quartile P} \\
IQR:=Q_3-Q_1\\
MC := \text{Medcouple(P)}
$$
We define:
$$
\text{Outliers}(P)=\{x|x\notin[Q_1 − h_l(MC) IQR; Q_3 + h_u(MC) IQR]\}\\
h_l(MC) = 1.5e^{3MC}\\
h_u(MC) = 1.5e^{-4MC}
$$
In our case we'll only use the upper bound to know which of the

### Timeline networks analysis

We'll construct a significant ego network for each timeline of all users, and we'll look at overall properties of all the ego-networks generated by our users.

#### Degree



#### Reciprocity



#### Clustering



### Evolving network

In this section we want to know if the changes in the activity have some effect on the degree of the ego-networks. To see the changes of the network through time we'll define a way to measure stability of our ego-network. 



- stability through time in $\tau$



- Jaccard / Taus -> changes through activity?



An adjusted boxplot for skewed distributions, M. Huberta,∗ , E. Vandervierenb